Doc-11534-PM-2.8-Edits-DH  Partner Manager 2.8 edits (#141)
mulesoft/docs-partner-manager: modules/ROOT/Edits/edifact-send-settings.adoc

= Configure Send Settings for Outbound EDIFACT Messages

> Partner Manager enables you to configure the EDIFACT envelope parameters, delimiters, validation rules, character encoding, and control numbers to apply when sending an outbound EDIFACT transmission from the host to a partner.

Reviewer: Question: If we say "enables you," are we talking about "you" as host or "you" as admin? If the former, should we later use "the host" as if it were a separate entity from "you"?

Reviewer: GLOBAL ^, it this is a valid point or just Kim Being Confused

Author: You is the admin, not the host.

To configure a partner's EDIFACT send settings:

. In the navigation menu, select *Partners*.
. Select the partner for whom to configure the send settings.
. In the *Validation and acknowledgment settings* section's *Send to <partner-name>* column, click *EDIFACT*.
. In the menu on the left, select the setting to configure:
* <<general-settings,General settings>>
* <<global-control-numbers,Global control numbers>>

> * <<character-set,Character set and separators>>

Reviewer: Should these be in bold as well as bulleted?
GLOBAL if I missed this earlier.

. Click *Save*.

> The values you configure in the partner's settings page are used by default for all EDIFACT messages sent to that trading partner. You can override the settings you configure at the message flow level by selecting the custom option while creating an outbound message flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The values you configure in the partner's settings page are used by default for all EDIFACT messages sent to that trading partner. You can override the settings you configure at the message-flow level by selecting the custom option when you create an outbound message flow.
```

[NOTE]
It can take up to five minutes for your configuration changes to sync with Mule.

[[general-settings]]

> == General Settings

Reviewer: This is not as precise as the sentence following it. Consider making this parallel with the introduction of the setting types in Line 3 ("validation rules").

Also consider reordering these subtopics to match the order in which they are presented in Line 3:

1. envelope parameters
2. delimiters
3. validation rules
4. character encoding
5. control numbers

Use the following settings to configure the general validation rules for outbound EDIFACT messages:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Setting |Description |Default Value
|Send Syntax Version
|Syntax version for outbound messages
|VERSION4
|Send UNA
|If enabled, adds a UNA segment at the beginning of the generated EDIFACT payload
|Enabled
|Enforce valid characters
|Enforces valid characters
|Enabled
|Enforce length limits

> | Validates data elements against length limits defined in the used EDI schema

Reviewer: extra space
```suggestion
|Validates data elements against length limits defined in the used EDI schema
```

Reviewer: "in the used EDI schema" or "in the EDI schema used"?
The former sounds to me like something...old.

|Enabled
|Expect CONTRL for each transmission sent to <partner>
|When enabled, sets UNB-09 to `1`, indicating that a technical acknowledgment is expected in the partner's response
|Disabled
|===

[[global-control-numbers]]

> == Global Control Numbers

Reviewer: Listed last in Line 3; consider reordering subtopics to match.

Partner Manager applies a global control number at the partner level on the EDIFACT interchanges generated from outbound message flows. These control numbers are sequenced across all message types sent to a trading partner, including functional acknowledgments.

> The control number starts with a default value of `1` and increases sequentially each time your organization sends outbound transmissions. To change the initial value to maintain sequencing and avoid duplication:

Reviewer: The second sentence here is the point of this setting; I wonder if it should be made more prominent or somehow emphasized?

. Click *Change* and enter the desired initial control number.
. Click *Save*.

[NOTE]
It can take up to five minutes to apply the change at runtime.

[[character-set]]

> == Character Set and Separators

Reviewer: Is this what is being called "delimiters" in Line 3? 
Per previous comments, reorder subtopics to match order in Line 3.

Reviewer: Ah! this subtopic covers both "delimiters" and "character encoding" listed in Line 3.
I'll stop beating this dead horse; clarify relationships among Line 3 content and subtopics.

Use the following settings to set the character encoding and delimiters for the generated EDIFACT payload:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Setting |Description |Default
|Character encoding
a|Character encoding for messages
|ASCII_B
|Data element separator
|Data element separator character
|+
|Component separator
|Component element separator characters
|:
|Repetition separator
|Repetition separator character
|*
|Segment terminator
|Segment terminator character
|'
|Release character
|Release character
|?
|Line ending between segments
a|
Character that adds line endings between segments to improve the readability of the output message text. Possible values include:

* NONE
+
Generates the EDIFACT payload as a single line with segments separated by this character
+
* CR
+
Carriage return
+
* CRLF
+
Carriage return and line feed
+
* LF
+

> Line Feed

Reviewer: Per recent update to style ref., you don't have to space these so widely, for example:
* NONE (generates....)
* NONE. Generates....
* NONE: generates
(I think the first is the most clear and easy to scan.)

|CRLF
|Test Indicator

> a| When you select *Test* from the drop-down, sets UNB-11 to `1`, which indicates that this is a test message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a| When you select *Test* from the dropdown menu, sets UNB-11 to `1`, which indicates that this is a test message
```
